After creating a maven project inside IntelliJ for the Selenium project, I searched for a way to implement Selenium into my project “Selenium Practice.” Using this link I downloaded(at this moment 3.7 was the latest version) this: http://selenium-release.storage.googleapis.com/index.html, and extracted the .jar file inside the newly created project, at the top-most level. Afterwards, inside IntelliJ I added the new .jar file into the libraries. 

I also added junit into the library for the simple testing. With those files implemented into your Selenium Practice project, you can begin writing the test cases. I extend the base class with TestCase so we can use the assertion methods. I use the HtmlUnitDriver as the driver to interact with the web. The interactions happen in the background, so the information is only displayed through the console. 

First, the driver is sent to http://www.google.com as our starting location. Then, using the driver object, we find the element “q” inside google.com (where q is the textbox for query), and save it to a WebElement object element. Now that we have the query box saved with element, we send in a string for the query to search for, in this case a “llama,” which we then have the element submit. Using the driver’s getTitle() method, we are able to print out the name of the page that the driver has been sent to, which in this case reads: “Llama – Google Search.” Then using  the assertTrue method, assert that the title saved to driver matches the word we gave to the element method, “llama,” which we find true. Thus ends the pass test. 

For the failing test we follow the same steps as prior, except the search was for “Peppers.” The system reads out that the getTitle() in this case was “Peppers – Google Search.” However, using the same assertTrue method, we compare the driver’s getTitle() to a different word, “Llama,” which returns the test as a fail. The reference I use for the setup of these methods is from the SeleniumHQ github, noted here: https://github.com/SeleniumHQ/selenium/wiki/Getting-Started
